# python-api-challenge
Module 6 Challenge - What is the weather like as we approach the equator?
# Code Source
Jupyter code (WeatherPy.ipynb and VacationPy.ipynb) within WeatherPy folder.
# Part 1: WeatherPy
Visualize the weather for over 500 cities of varying distances from the equator. Create a representative model of weather across cities. You'll use the citipy Python libraryLinks to an external site., the OpenWeatherMap APILinks to an external site., and your problem-solving skills to create a representative model of weather across cities.
## Requirement 1: Create Plots to Showcase the Relationship between Weather Variables and Latitude
Using OpenWeatherMap API to retrive weather data from the cities list generated.
Generated scatter plots to show case Latitude vs Temperature, Latitude vs Humidity, Latitude vs Cloudiness, and Latitude vs Wind Speed.
## Requirement 2: Computer Linear Regression for Each Relationship
Computed the linear regression for each relationship in requirement 1. 
Separate the plots into Northern Hemisphere (greater than or equal to 0 degrees latitude) and Southern Hemisphere (less than 0 degrees latitude).
Created a series of scatter plots. (includes linear regression line, the model's formula, and the r^2 values)
Created the plots for both Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere: Temperature vs Latitude, Humidity vs Latitude, Cloudiness vs Latitude, and Wind Speed vs Latitude.
For each plot explained what the linear regression is modeling after within WeatherPy.ipynb in each sub section. 
Added a conclusion at the end of WeatherPy.ipynb
# Part 2: VacationPy
You'll use weather data skills to plan future vacations. Also, you'll use Jupyter notebooks, the geoViews Python library, and the Geoapify API. Create a map visualizations.
Created a map that displayed a point for every city in the city_data_df DataFrame. With the size of the point being the humidity.
Narrowed down the city_data_df to ideal weather conditions. 
- A max temperature lower than 27 degrees but higher than 21
- wind speed less than 4.5 m/s
- Zero Cloudiness  
Created a new DataFrame called hotel_df to store the city, country , coordinates, and humidity.
Used the Geoapify API to find the first hotel located within 10,000 meters of coordinates
Added the hotel name and the country as additional information in the hover message for each city on the map. 
# References:
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only. Used google for define a function to create line regression plots, accessed February 2025.
